Majors Cooley and welcome back to the
show Tom thank you for having me again
I'm stoked man so why is it that people
that are hyper successful are so
obsessed with getting their morning
routine right and what should everybody
watching this right now do to make
theirs crispy
because that's a really good question I
think the morning routine
is something that will set anybody up
for Success right because when you wake
up and I wake up and the next guy wakes
up we all have about the same number of
time
actually exactly the same number of time
and so since we know that that means
what you do versus what I do matters and
so if I'm screen sucking the moment I
get up I'm looking at social media
what's going on Facebook who's talking
about what on Instagram and you're like
hey I've got this GSD list I call it the
get [__] done list and the GSD list is
you're just going to wake up and
dominate your day like my morning
routine is wake up never hit the snooze
button we've talked about this on your
show previously drink my 30 ounces of
water because
Sean Stevenson said so and then take a
shower and then end up downstairs with
my protein shake and my coffee and more
water and work off my GSD list like that
sets me up to win checking in on social
media is not part of my morning routine
because all of a sudden something on
social media might trigger me to feel
like I'm missing out might trigger me to
feel like I should have been at an event
might trigger me to feel like
sense of guilt a sense of Shame a sense
of whatever and any of those things any
of those feelings and emotions are not
things that I would take into the Battle
of business and I'm in the Battle of
business because of when I make money I
can have a greater sense of meaning with
it and and so I cannot take emotions and
feelings and thoughts that I got from
social media especially in the morning
to the battlefield of business where I
do most of my heavy work in the morning
so that morning routine sets me up to
win and soon as I'm done with my GSD
list by about 9 A.M like you can set
your clock to me I go right to the gym
work out intentionally put my phone in
my cubby at the gym and because again
I'm susceptible to looking at the screen
and if I'm doing that all of a sudden my
workout is less than Stellar yeah which
means I feel like a failure and now I'm
more likely to compound failure
throughout the day so that's how I look
at it so conversely if I slept in hit
the snooze button didn't drink 30 ounces
of water just took a sip of water now
I'm going to be late to work I feel
rushed the subconscious mind is telling
me that I'm a loser I'm a failure I'm an
imposter how you can go lead a
international franchise or a supplement
company or a or write another book when
you're a loser dude right the
subconscious mind speaks to us that's
the inner critic and so to shut down the
inner critic and give voice to the inner
advocate
a strong morning routine sets you up to
win the day you win the day you win the
week
and then off you go you've won a year
and then a decade it's so crazy to me
how much that matters like you can get
off by just a little and your efficiency
starts to be off and then the day just
isn't as
um useful as it could have been and it
really it really does start with the
morning like getting people to
understand if you get the morning right
then the rest of your day you're going
to be able to be far more productive and
when you start stacking those things
that really is the difference between
somebody that accomplishes a lot and
somebody that doesn't look I don't want
to deny the intellect plays a big role
education plays a big role but
if you are inefficient to your point
about okay we all have the same number
of hours so it comes down to how are you
spending your time but there's something
like I find myself wanting to say more
words because there's something
ineffable that I'm not capturing yet
which is
there is a really subtle difference
between a high performance day and a
mediocre day and when I think about
certainly the thing that has been my
superpower is I'm able to generate
momentum so I can go from standing still
nobody knows who I am nobody believes in
what I'm trying to do uh we don't have a
company incorporated like all of that
and then ah you know those Furs like
getting the machine moving is so hard
that's what I can do and whether that's
a new project whether that's a whole
company whatever I can get those early
things going
every day feels like that and on the
days where I am battered and beaten
psychologically and I what I I call
hiding in bed and I'm hiding in bed and
you just even if I just miss getting out
of bed because I give myself 10 minutes
if I get out of bed in 11 minutes I'm
like uh I know where this goes there's
something I'm pushing against that is
stop either I didn't go to bed on time I
didn't sleep well I'm stressed whatever
but there's something going on that made
getting up unusually hard that day and
then it just Spirals and so getting
people to understand how important it is
to do the most important things first
do them efficiently get the
psychological momentum going so that you
can believe in yourself you have that
credibility you get going it really
makes a big difference but it's hard to
explain it is hard to explain but
sometimes you don't need an explanation
for example if you just watch What
winners do and do what they do odds are
you will eventually have a similar
outcome great example is
I believed I believe you may have shared
this at either fleischman's elevator
nights when we all spoke there or it
might have been on when uh you were kind
enough to come and do my podcast but you
said
if I wake up within correct me if I'm
wrong if I wake up within 20 minutes of
my alarm going off I don't go back to
sleep I just get up I'm like I'm
adopting that I'm adopting that now if
it was some crackhead who robs Banks
says that I may not adopt that but
you're someone I respect that I want to
be like and emulate you know what I'm
going to add that to my repertoire like
I don't know why Sean wrote in his book
that you need to drink third ounce of
water in the morning I don't care why I
trust him and I trust that he's a great
scientist and he's all about human
optimization I'm going to do that I
trust you as an entrepreneur and so when
I look up to in this category of life
I'm going to do that and so I just start
adopting things and I think there's a
gift to just being
for lack of a better term ignorant like
you know ignorance is bliss yeah so much
of My Success has just been because no
one told me that I couldn't fly no one
said those you don't have wings and so I
was like watch this and I flew yeah I
mean I created a software company with
no software background or franchise
without any without a dropped out of
college in 32 days bro out of junior
college right they're like well you
don't have a lot of green you don't
pause on that why did you drop out I I
just felt like I didn't belong I I was
constantly just like high school I felt
constantly behind and I figured all
right I'm gonna go to Junior College and
see if I can get on track because you
know they say go to college where you're
new to like I would be the first family
member
to graduate college because remember we
escaped Soviet Union came here when I
was six and so it was a big deal I felt
that pressure on me and I truly wanted
to have a college degree just to say
I've done this right
but just like high school it felt like I
didn't belong it felt like I would have
to study three or four or five times
harder than everyone else and I remember
in call in high school the the foil
method remember foil first inner outer
last nope see that no one does never
heard that but it was part of algebra or
something oh God I cheated my way
through all the mathematics I have no
idea God bless you I was so bad at it
that I remember showing my answer and
the teacher going but that's you're not
going to get credit because you didn't
do foil and this is the only thing I
remember about high school because she
like chastised me so much she says you
didn't do the first inner out or last
you didn't show your work you got the
answer I remember thinking
I'm gonna be an entrepreneur man I'm
going to produce the results I I knew
that I was going to be my own boss wow
I'm Gonna Be My Own Boss I need to
produce an outcome and people are going
to prove some outcomes for me I don't
care how they produce it don't produce
it unethically don't produce it by
cheating someone killing someone but
produced outcome I want and I will
actually reward you
for producing it faster instead of doing
this amount of work if you can do this
amount of work and produce the outcome
our industry rewards that the education
system doesn't and so the same thing
happened in college so like 31 32 days
in I'm like all right I'm out I'm
falling behind I feel like a dumb ass
I'm having to study three four times as
much to remember things that I feel are
irrelevant to where my path in life and
so I moved on was like all right
full-lane entrepreneurship any of that
chip away at your belief that you could
do the entrepreneurship thing or you
just knew uh this isn't going to matter
I felt that I was so unemployable in
terms of like every job I had gotten
fired from also right except for
Disneyland I worked at Disneyland for
six and a half years I didn't get fired
I quit every other job I got fired from
the bagel store on by Balboa Island
Adventure City
um you name it every place and so I was
like I'm unemployable no one wants to
employ me I know I can be a better boss
like and and have people like me who are
I don't know maybe a bit of Misfits uh
free thinkers outcome producers without
showing the work work for me and I'll
create my own little tribe I've always
known I was a black sheep and so school
and not doing well in school did not
deter me from being an entrepreneur in
fact all it did was say this is your
only path dude no one's going to employ
you you're unemployable you're going to
lose every job you have
um and it was because of the conflict
that I have I always questioned
Authority and I think that's a great
Behavior to have but know that if you
constantly question authority you're
probably not employable right the whole
idea of having a boss is there your
source of authority and so I always
questioned Authority I questioned
education system and so I knew that I
had to beat my own path so all it did is
solidify my resolve
yeah it's interesting the idea of
questioning authorities so that's always
been my problem I've always had a
problem with authority I'm not even sure
so I mean look 50 of us is hardwired so
I'll say that for whatever reason I've
just always had an issue with that uh so
yeah that's definitely but I'm very
employable I was an amazing employee so
it's weird it's like this bizarre
conflict of I hate it I hate people
being able to tell me what to do which
is why I was so hell-bent to become My
Own Boss
um but I would silently conform so it's
really interesting and bucking out of
that is difficult I actually want to
talk about that there's going to I think
a huge part of this conversation will
end up being about that but first I want
to talk about imperfect action yes so
we've got our moaning routine we know we
need to be hyper efficient I still think
I failed to convey like that that real
subtle Nuance of what a big difference
but if people can just like you said
model the behavior great so people have
that on lock but they're going to most
people are diminished by the failures by
not being good at school by whatever
they've been kicked in the teeth enough
in life so they convince themselves
they're not going to be able to do it
and the number of people no matter how
many times I say because I talk a lot
about you need to learn right so
whatever you're going to do you're going
to learn about it but then people end up
in the death Loop of like I'm going to
learn from nine years because I don't
think I understand and I'm like no no if
you learn something in the morning you
start using it in the afternoon so like
you have to go right away otherwise it's
it's all going to be
um
book knowledge is not going to be
practical right it's going to be
theoretical it's not going to be applied
so what is imperfect action and how have
you mustered the courage to actually do
it when you know that failure is so
possible
so I'll start with the idea of failure
first and I learned from Napoleon Hills
book outwitting The Devil
that there is no such thing as failure I
have reframed it in my head as I will
experience temporary defeat many times
in my life but I will never experience
failure and once you accept that why
what's failure and why won't you expect
failure is a choice and so if you choose
not to like if you choose not to drink
any more water from that cup no matter
how much I make you you choose not to
drink it it's not going to happen so
it's failure when you actually stop
trying it's when you stop trying it's a
choice to stay down right and it's okay
to stay down and gather your wits and
then get back up hence making it
temporary defeat the moment you choose
to stay down by because of not trying
you have given up so let's just say
giving up instead of failure failure
shouldn't even exist it's temporary
defeat so once I know that then I'm like
well there's no such thing as failure
because I choose not to accept it or
acknowledge it therefore I will only see
temporary defeats in life and the more
things that I attempt to do that are new
the higher the probability of having
temporary defeats however each one of
those defeats are a lesson that I could
learn from and improve because the human
mind the psyche and body are very
adaptable playing ping pong against one
of your guys here was different than
playing against Lisa your wife who's a
beast at it and so I had to adopt the
body is so adaptable so knowing that if
I learn something first thing in the
morning I want to be able to use it as
soon as possible I don't want to wait
till it's perfect I don't want to wait
till we have a trademark or the
copyright like I was the one out the
gate launching Fit Body Boot Camp before
was trademarking my attorney was like
stop I will always lean into imperfect
action because I do know that the
universe will collude with me will
conspire with me when I am leaning into
imperfect action
I can always course correct as I go see
people always we're so black and white
bro we are so black and white and I was
the king of black and white like if I do
this and if it doesn't work out then I
will fail oh [__]
oh [__] with that mindset and if that's
the only outcome you choose to accept
that's scary that it's it's either going
to be a win or a fail
what if it's somewhere in the middle
that there's a temporary defeat and
therefore you can back up the car and go
down the next Road and then temporary
defeat back up the car again go down the
next road so imperfect action tells me
that the person the universe the
universe will reward the person who acts
the quickest that's just how the
universal Collective Consciousness works
if we know that to be true
then I will take an idea that I learned
I will launch it immediately and I will
course correct as I go and the universe
will reward me because of that and again
these people who say the universe a
you're a man of Faith right
I am a man of faith that there's a God a
higher power the book that you gave me
my friend
um
the power of myth Joseph Campbell really
talks about Consciousness and our human
animal we are Consciousness writing in
this meat sack that's a human animal
that has impulsively wants to eat and
lean into comfort and convenience and
greed and you know if this was the only
cup of water left and the few hours went
by one of us are going to want to attack
it that's what the human animal wants to
do Consciousness goes I'm just going to
look through
these windows call the eyes I'm going to
control my human animal most people are
they're light their inner Radiance are
so stifled
the way I show it at the project and
we'll probably get into the project
later but imagine this light bulb
and it glows bright within that's our
Radiance we are connected to the source
to God
and all of our Consciousness together is
the universe and so if I take that bulb
and I put a black blanket over it and
another layer of black blanket and
another black blanket soon you barely
see the glow
most people their Radiance has been
stifled because they put
food drugs alcohol infidelity
pornography laziness binge watching
television
all these layers of distraction over
their Radiance they're supposed to go so
bright
that if you were able to remove all that
everyone's got that great Consciousness
but all those blankets on top of your
light
stifles it and therefore you become more
of a human animal because you've stifled
Consciousness and so the word greatest
work we can ever do in our life is the
work we do on ourselves which is really
removing all of those layers of blankets
so that the light can shine bright and
then you know this you walk into
somewhere and people are magnetically
attracted to you it's not for any other
reason other than you've done the self
work your Tom 2.0 3.0 4.0 just like on
Pedro's 2.0 3.0 4.0 and therefore people
are like man there's something about
this person that's the universal
connection we all have Consciousness
their human animal can see that this
person
is glowing brighter and they're
attracted to that and it's our job then
to go let me help you expose your
Radiance as well so how do you how do
you start pulling those napkins the
black cloth how do you peel those off
self-awareness right self-awareness
first
um
Until you realize that you are a human
animal I realized that I was a human
animal meaning you have impulses
impulsive
that you're emotional that you react on
emotion and not logic that you make
decisions on feelings and sometimes
those are somewhat permanent decisions
based on temporary feelings and we've
all made those I'm not pointing fingers
I was the king of making bad decisions
on temporary feelings that later led to
regret
but 11 years ago I had this massive
panic attack and I talked about that in
my book
and thank God man for that panic attack
because I was 37 years old I thought I
was having a heart attack I'm like I'm
at the peak of my Prime Fit Body Boot
Camp starting to thrive like just
blowing up it's becoming this
International brand we got recognition
from Ink magazine an entrepreneur
magazine
um yet my marriage was starting to fall
apart my babies at the time they're 14
and or 15 and 17 now they wouldn't come
running to me when I come into the house
because I gave off this tense energy
right and I would impulsively just
emotionally eat when I get home bagels
and cream cheese because I needed the
dopamine hits yet I was running a
Fitness franchise so I was incongruent
with
the fitness industry that I'm supposed
to be in I'm making videos at the time
on YouTube from the chin up because I
didn't really want to show the pouring
out of shape that I was in
and so I share all this with you because
that panic attack led me to realize uh
okay one it wasn't a heart attack
thankfully the doctor did the EKG test
and was like hey you're good but how's
your life I'm like well I'm stressed I'm
like drinking NyQuil to fall asleep
every night and taking Vicodin to fall
asleep and um I would wake up and take
adderall and drink a whole bunch of
coffee to then you know kick that foggy
headedness from the drugs the night
before
and so I was always behind on schedule
felt like an imposter because I would
expect something from my employees that
I wouldn't even do myself I share all
this with you because that panic attack
which felt like a heart attack led me to
start doing some self work the self work
started with a therapist because I read
I didn't want to take um they gave me
Xanax dude I was on Xanax for four days
and I don't know if you've ever taken
Xanax but for me it felt like someone
turned off my creativity switch like if
we have all these different switches
someone just like a dimmer switch
brought it down to like one and so all
right I don't feel anxious
but I also don't feel like trying
anything stuff just chill out at home
like four days in I'm like this is how I
lose it all so I went back to the doctor
I'm like dude I can't take this stuff he
goes well to manage your your Stress and
Anxiety have you thought about talking
to a therapist
like oh that's for crazy people right
but um reluctantly I found a good
therapist Dr Kevin Downing in Brea
California
and um
and we spent the next like 15 months
every Monday after work I'd drive to
Brea and I'd sit on his couch and some
Mondays I was like Kevin could I just
can I just curl up on the couch pay you
to just let me sleep here just take a
nap I'm just drained and he would just
have lighter conversations with me those
days still charge me for a lighter
conversation and then there was days
where we did the heavy work where I just
felt like I was just walking to my car
in this parking lot like I was just
walking through molasses like we peeled
away a lot of scars from childhood
trauma like being molested as a kid in
Armenia by two older boys to just being
bullied when we came here but all this
to say
Kevin brought to surface self-awareness
for me and I realized that dude I shield
and I soothe the ego is a real thing and
it is there to protect us
but the ego will help us shield and
soothe so if I make a lot of money I can
surround myself with yes people then yes
people are going to be good to me
they're gonna they're gonna do it so of
course I wanted to make a lot of money
all this to say self-awareness comes
from self-work
once you do the self-work you become
self-aware you're like oh my God I am
flawed Tom I'm a horrible friend when
you're like hey how's it going and I'm
like what do you mean by that that's
because I'm reacting to some weird
feelings that I haven't processed
through that may have happened as a kid
man just because the way you said
something I gets triggered it triggers
me right and so I started to do the
self-work it was ugly it was not fun
um I had weeks at a time where
he had to process about what happened to
me as a kid man do I tell my parents who
are in their 80s no there's no point in
telling them they're just gonna
feel this guilt and why don't you tell
us sooner and they're going to die with
that memory like so like keep it to
yourself you know so those are real
things that the process do I share this
publicly well I feel like I'm supposed
to serve humanity and the selfish most
selfish thing I do is each time I serve
Humanity I serve myself so all right I'm
going to try and talk about this
on stage one time and one day it came
out on stage I could see the whole
audience squirming in their seats
because who the hell wants to hear that
hey look if you've been molested or
sexually or physically emotionally
abused you probably have trauma and you
carry this
Shield
and you're either shielding or soothing
soothing with drugs alcohol infidelity
whatever or shielding as in not letting
people win
and so how is that showing up with your
kids with your friendships business
Partnerships your wife yours your
husband
um and so the more I talk about it and
so I very quickly realized that oh my
God talking about this allows me to have
more aha moments more aha moments lead
me to taking off yet another layer of
that blanket and the blight gets
brighter and brighter and the brighter
the lights light gets the more people
want to hear from me and talk to me and
do business with me and stay around me
and and I realized this is how we make
impact we all want to serve Humanity we
all know that we're on this planet for a
reason we have a higher level of purpose
and so we feel the gnawing in our gut
like I want to impact legs I want to
change lives I want to inspire people
cool
start with fixing victim number one
before you go fix everybody else you
know talk to me about the light so
there's two ideas in here there's uh the
universe is conspiring with you I'd
definitely love to know more about that
and then there's the idea of the light
is sort of already on but you've covered
it up and you just have to peel it away
yeah how much of it is the light itself
even if you didn't have it covered up do
you is there a way to make that brighter
like whatever that thing is or do you
feel like no we're born perfect and the
life diminishes us
I do believe and again I've got no signs
to back this up you've probably had far
smarter people sitting here at this
table who could back this up with some
kind of science but I again I'm so
convicted of my beliefs and how about
this maybe I'm absolutely all wrong but
just because I believe in this so much
that I make it so if that alone
makes me successful and happy in life
and feeling like I've had some sense of
meaning and significance I'm good to go
man it's interesting you actually said
something earlier and I wanted to say
you know how crazy you sound right now
right but it's so effective that
um I so here's another idea I don't know
how to get people to embody this but so
what you said that made you sound crazy
but to me I'm totally with you is uh you
were talking about the failure and
you're like I refuse to acknowledge it
yeah
foreign
you both and you talked about this but
you both have to look at it assess what
went wrong look at the data learn from
it so that you can do something more
effective next time and at the same time
you have to completely ignore whatever
Temptation you have to believe that that
means that you're not going to succeed
in the future and that this is somehow a
commentary on your capabilities it's
this really weird
Schism of you have to look at both
things so yeah you're right and and I
think that it's true what you're saying
so I'm not a believer in the universe is
conspiring I think the universe could
give a [__] like it just it it is
there's obviously something that we
don't understand so whatever there is
some sort of
god-ish thing there's something I don't
understand right why is there something
instead of nothing
it's arguably the most profound question
that you can ever ask
I won't derail us on that but so there's
obviously something yeah there's
obviously something that I don't
understand but I don't think it's
working for me I think that there are a
set of rules the world Works a certain
way what is up my friend Tom bilyu here
and I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a 10
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right I've just released a class from
Impact Theory university called how to
build iron discipline that teaches you
the process of building yourself up in
this area so that you can push yourself
to do the hard things that greatness is
going to require of you right click the
link on the screen register for this
class right now and let's get to work I
will see you inside this Workshop from
Impact Theory University until then my
friends be legendary peace out
and so when you were talking about human
as animal that resonates with me we I'm
I have told uh my the people in Impact
Theory University like a dozen times if
there's going to be an Epitaph on my
Tombstone I would like it to read you're
having a biological experience meaning
even if there is a God that God has
given you a set of physics chemistry
biology and they work a certain way and
if you try to fight them your life will
be miserable because you will be unable
to predict the outcome of your behaviors
if you can't predict the outcome of your
behaviors you won't be able to take
right action meaning the action that
moves you most efficiently towards your
goals
so I don't think it's working with me
but I still think everything you said is
true in that if I align myself with the
way things actually work I'll make rapid
progress so why does the world I think
the exact word you said where the
universe will conspire with the person
who acts fastest
I think that's true I just don't think
the universe is it's not the language I
would use sure so but it is so in
alignment with the first person to act
will learn faster than the next person
they're obviously not afraid to fail if
they can lower their ego enough to take
in the lesson of whatever failure they
get by moving first then they can
improve and keep going it's the action
Improvement and continuing to move
that's the conspiring but whether you
believe that it's God that's going to
work with you the universe is going to
work with you because you do it or you
just [__] do it whatever as long as
you're on that path you're going to win
so I think we might be saying the same
thing bro 100 yeah there's no doubt
because you just said
that on your Tombstone if there's going
to be anything it's going to say that
you're having a biological experience
and this biological experience set by
God or whoever else whatever else right
um there's rules to the game this is
kind of what you're implied and that if
you play by the rules
that you're gonna win if you don't play
by the rules if you don't understand the
game you're it's going to be a painful
life a painful Human Experience right we
can agree to that and so the way I look
at it is is just that the
Source Universe all of our Collective
Consciousness together is like we've all
agreed subconsciously these are the
rules
every person knows that they got to lean
into imperfect action do they I doubt
that they do if you take out the layers
bro take out the players
it is a lot of work this is why we all
start off as some level of Radiance like
you look at a child so pure going back
to the question you asked like is that
light just on I believe we all have I
don't know anything about electricity so
I'm going to say whatever let's say this
is a 20 watt light light bulb right
we're all born with a 20 watt light bulb
and it's nothing's covering it ah this
is beautiful baby and we hold it and ah
there it is and then
mom and dad are like oh you're chunky oh
you're clumsy now that you're starting
to walk around these are layers being
put on now they plant you in front of
the TV a lot and now because Mom and Dad
want to go on date nights and they don't
they can't afford a nanny
they're going to slap the iPad in front
of you on date night so now your
screen's sucking and now you're just
seeing all this more blankets are being
put on this light the light the source
your Radiance is being stifled soon you
become addicted to watching television
it becomes your thing and you don't
connect and you don't know how to build
rapport now you're a teenager and you're
awkward and you're strange and you don't
know and you're not playing video games
instead of socializing and I share all
this with you because that Radiance
layer by layer from food to names like
oh you're clumsy you're chunky uh we're
all our family everyone in our family's
fat you know how many times I heard that
in my life so I was like okay I'm gonna
be fat strong and so when I made this
like big proclamation in 2010 like [__]
it I'm gonna train for six weeks and run
a marathon
like my inner voice was like bro you're
a fat dude that just lifts weights you
power lift like but now I'm gonna run a
marathon you just watch so literally the
inner critic and the inner Advocate are
fighting Within Me
and that was the first time I allowed
the inner Advocate to win and I hired a
running coach
and I and I said make me a running
program I'm gonna run the San Diego Rock
and Roll Marathon my wife at the time
ran marathons like three a year and look
what a freaking hypocrite I was here Tom
jokingly I told my wife
many years before we got married
we're still dating I was like hey you
know if you marry me I'll run a marathon
right just jokingly
but again
subconsciously deep down inside there's
some truth to this that was me testing
whether she's going to say yes or no
right we're still dating we're new with
this whole relationship so she's like
fine I will right so then let's say
three years later or four years later we
got married
bro was nine years in and she ran three
marathons a year
so almost 30 marathons later I had yet
whoa what a liar I was what a hypocrite
I was now one could say well I just
jokingly said that I didn't really mean
it at the time I'm like lifting all
these weights I'm dead lifting I'm
squatting I'm benching I'm a big boy
lifting big weights God's made me to
lift weights you can justify it any way
you want then you can always find
evidence to back it up right look at my
traps look at my shoulders at the time
right so I share this with you because
one day she's like hey I'm gonna run the
Rock and Roll Marathon and I was like
cool awesome have a great time I then
left on a trip that day
to uh to run one of my masterminds the
time I surrounded my masterminds in uh
Miami San Diego Las Vegas we're in Las
Vegas and there's like 40 50 of my
coaching clients and Craig Valentine is
there as well I invited Craig to help
coach this group with me he was the
guest speaker and Craig's telling one of
the people who was complaining about
procrastinating yeah I just keep
procrastinating and I just keep doing
all these things because I don't want to
launch my products I don't want to face
the rejection of it potentially whatever
right new entrepreneur
and so Craig very curmudgeon he goes uh
you know what you need to do you know
cut that deadline you need to cut your
deadline in half again and then he just
starts lacing into this person and I'm
sitting here I'm like oh my God he's
speaking to me right now here I am nine
years later almost 30 marathons I've yet
to make good on my promise so I text my
wife under the table I'm like what did
you say that Marathon was she goes in
like eight weeks I'm like great sign me
up for it right
so she goes I'll sign you up for the
half every Marathon has a half marathon
I'm like that's [__] sign me up for
the full Marathon because I'm also all
in on everything I do which is great
thing unless you're like going to do
cocaine or heroin but always make sure
my addictions are good these days these
days these days full disclosure these
days I am pretty obsessive and I think
that is a gift but it could also be very
damaging like under the right
circumstances you would find me dead in
a gutter
um and so I have to be vigilant and
militant in my schedule and the people
that I surround myself with my thought
patterns all of it um
going back to Diana and the marathon so
she books me for the Rock and Roll
Marathon I find a running coach in How
the Universe colludes with us my friend
you ready for this in that group in that
coaching group
was a woman named Joe Brewer her website
I [__] you not run with jill.com she's a
running coach
so at lunch I'm telling her about it not
even connecting the dots like hey I just
signed up for a marathon I'm a bit
nervous because I could deadlift I could
squat I could bench but Ron I've never
had to run right
she goes do you need a running program
I'm like well yeah yeah I'm gonna find
me a running coach she goes that's what
I do run with jill.com like oh my God
she makes me a running program lo and
behold I trained for six weeks run the
marathon everything's fine
I broke through some glass ceiling some
limiting belief that I was only made to
do this and so
when we were born we had this Radiance
this light and families Meanwhile your
aunts your uncles your moms your dads
but soon they call you chunky and fat
and clumsy and all this and you begin to
buy all those things and your Radiance
goes away your light dims and you're
just like this robot living other
people's stories or narrative that they
put on you until one day you decide to
do the self-work and peel back painfully
the layers to expose your Radiance of
your whopping 20 watts then
you could do even deeper work and raise
the wattage like a dimmer switch to
whatever I don't know what the level is
because I'm still a work in progress if
you ever have me back 10 years from now
there might be a higher version of
myself
um but that's where I am today is
Raising that wattage yeah it's really
it's a very interesting metaphor and I
think that as people learn about the way
the mind works and they realize that you
have to be really thoughtful about what
you allow yourself to think
um I'm a big believer that you you are
what you repeat and so whatever you
allow yourself to repeat you're going to
become and even so the negative stuff no
matter how absurd if you repeated enough
you'll actually start to believe it and
the positive stuff no matter how absurd
at first it seems you'll start to
believe it if you allow yourself to
repeat it there's a really great book
called feeling great by David D Burns
and entity talks about pattern
interrupting like you have to pattern
interrupt your negative thoughts and
that was something that really served me
in the beginning I was so prone to
believe negative things about myself
that I just had to learn I I had to make
a rule in my life I don't allow myself
to repeat negative things about myself
even if I think they're true because
it's not going to serve me how do you
interrupt your patterns I literally say
I don't allow myself to think that no
stop like whatever I'll sometimes even
say it out loud also I have found if
people ever find me making this face
that face breaks negativity I can't hold
that look on my face and feel negative
it puts me in an aggressive move forward
posture now also I find that I'm gonna
have that those lines
etched into my face because I do that so
often but it really makes me feel
powerful and so doing little things like
that no I don't do that overwhelm is one
I don't do overwhelm and so I say that
to myself all the time because I feel
myself getting overwhelmed and so I'm
always trying to tell people when I say
I don't do overwhelm I don't mean that
in like a cool way that like oh I'm so
tough I I just don't allow myself to go
down that path and because to your point
about self-awareness I've spent so much
time identifying why I feel a certain
way without judgment oh that's
insecurity it's emotional weakness
whatever not not in any way shape or
form trying to be cool about it just
okay I feel that way because I'm
insecure about this thing cool
but because I have that level of
self-awareness and because I force
myself to do things that take my
emotional awareness I'm feeling a thing
to being able to articulate what thing I
am feeling and then why I'm feeling it
when I feel to me it feels like my brain
is revving up that's what overwhelm
feels like my brain is moving faster and
faster and faster and faster to the
point where it's not it's not a level of
efficiency it's overwhelm it's just it's
too much it's revving too fast it's like
being in first gear and stamping on yes
that's exactly what I pictured in my
mind's eye too A Car in park yet
stepping on the gas you hear all this
rev but it's not any place where it's
going to get momentum correct that was a
very interesting analogy that that is
exactly what overwhelm feels like to me
so when I hear that I'm like nope I
don't do overwhelm stop and just by
saying that
breathing from my diaphragm it's like
you can change the neurochemistry you're
having a biological experience so I'm
reminding myself
even going back to what you were saying
you're having a panic attack you think
you're having a heart attack you go
outside I happen to I've heard the story
so I know you feel the Sunshine on your
face you get some fresh air you take
some deep breaths oh whoa okay it's
passed even if it was a heart attack and
so changing your state you know just
stealing directly from Tony Robbins the
ability to change your state will change
your life but you have to get control of
that and so getting people this all goes
back to this you have this glowing orb
inside of you
you have to understand I think that your
point about you can raise that up over
time that's the area to focus whether
you have it or not when you're born to
me whatever our job is to uncover it and
then to raise that dimmer so that it's
it's really kicking off some wattage but
to do that you have to think right
bro what if the whole meaning of life
was
like we're all born with
that orb or light
lit
fully covered with dozens of layers
maybe you have 20 I have 18 he's got 32
meaning of life is uncover it and when
you don't you will suffer with
depression anxiety stress overwhelm
which is consciousness
telling you
you're not doing what you should be
you're shielding you're soothing you're
distracting you're doing all these
things instead of working on self
because when you take off that last
layer
like potential has been achieved but
well before taking off that last layer
maybe five layers six layers in now
you're hitting your stride in life like
I feel like the last
you know the soul 11 years ago was when
I had that panic attack anxiety attack
that led me to Dr Kevin uh that led me
to so much self-work a decade of
self-work but about I'd say about five
years years in so I started feeling like
this Rhythm like all right man like I'm
really doing it the body hockey sticks
and more businesses and more
opportunities and I get in the best
shape of my life and
it's not even like you have to take off
that last layer to achieve Bliss maybe
that's like your Peak State and whether
we all get there or not I don't know but
I think what if that was it you just
nailed it all the meaning of life is
there's your orb congratulations it's
covered with a [__] ton of Gunk your job
is to take the layers off and in the
process of taking those layers off
that's the self-work that's doing the
Deep work
how boring would life be if we're like
yeah I'm not what I'm supposed to do
it's interesting so I think that the
that is so close to how I would define
the meaning of life the way I've always
thought of it in my head is the first of
all whatever life only has a meaning
that you give it I don't think there is
any truly intrinsic meaning but I think
everybody should have an answer
my answer is the meaning of life the
reason we're all here is to see how much
of your potential you can turn into
skill set and so if pushing the metaphor
and I'm not sure this is entirely what
you meant but if that glowing orb is
it's you now have something that's
useful that lights the way that allows
you to move forward in the way that you
want
that that feels really close to to what
I think people ought to be doing
it seems to me
and I've been on this path like
intentionally
and in a very focused way like in a
ruthlessly focused way the last decade
that for me again that is the meaning of
my life to just keep removing the layers
what is Pedro's 2.0 10.0 going to look
like and again but I'm also so convicted
by my belief system that I can I also
know I could will
things into being so like I can will the
universe to work
collude with me right conspire with me
which also I goes back to like your
rules like I also believe the universe
has rules and it's like hey man you
thought of something yeah every second
that passes says the universe to me in
my mind every second that passes I'm
gonna make it less achievable so you
thought of something you just learned a
new skill do it [__] do it yeah
but it's not gonna be right Mr Universe
I know it's not but you could either
wait to get it down correctly but you're
going to be so in the deficit because
all the number of minutes and hours and
months that go by that
I've struck you know all these strikes
against you or if you do it now take
imperfect action you just learned it
deploy it you can course correct like
the universe is testing you like do I
want to keep rewarding this guy for this
idea I'm like oh my God I did it it's
scary is it going to work it's like well
it kind of worked okay well great but
can you fix it yes I can I'm going to
keep fixing it it's this cool thing
where whether to call it the rules call
it the Universe I really believe that
the self-work and the rules and taking
that orb that's glowing and trying to
raise its Radiance the more we do we do
develop these skill sets like these
skill sets exist
but we uncover them unearth them and
then we could use it to make money have
meaning leave an impact have
significance create a legacy I suppose
we could also use it for evil but that
goes back to
character core values and all that other
[__] right yeah that that's a whole
another conversation because I think
most people that from the outside we go
that person's evil they they never think
they're evil no but there's something
you said that I want to um go deeper on
so I am reading this book called The
Evolution of everything by Matt Ridley
and he talks about because you were
saying like you need to take imperfect
action the universe conspires with you
if you're the first person that it's
going to get harder the longer you wait
and in the book he's talking about the a
potential explanation for why that
really is and his theory is that because
everything evolves literally everything
that
um electricity gets invented and the
light bulb is going to be invented
necessarily after electricity but that
it will be a certain period of time
after electricity that you get the light
bulb based on what kind of filaments are
there can you blow glass like there's
all these things that have to come
together right so uh and he points out
that like we think of these moments of
um that inventions are these moments of
genius and that it's this one person
that sort of propelled us forward in
this great leap and he said he doesn't
think that the world actually works that
way that what's happening is things are
evolving and things will happen at a
given point based on that Evolution and
that they're uh there are like eight
different people that have been credited
with the invention of the light bulb and
it's only because we're in the west that
we think of Thomas Edison but in reality
in different countries almost at exactly
the same time other people came up with
a light bulb and that there was the same
thing I forget another really famous
invention I'm forgetting it was a
telephone or the phonograph whatever but
it was like they the the patent was
filed in the patent office on the same
day
and it's a really interesting idea and
uh Michael Jackson said the same thing
he called I think it was Quincy Jones in
the middle of the night and he's like
Quincy I just had an idea for a song and
we have to record it and he's like why
do we have to record it right now Mike
it's like three in the morning he said
because if we don't record it right now
Prince is going to and he was like but
it's just a random [__] idea that
you've had what are you talking about
how would Prince know he's like no like
once it's out there it's out there the
ethers of the universe yeah and I think
what he was really getting is gives me
the chills what he's getting at is
there's all this [__] going on in the
world and it all comes together and it
it we're all the product of our time
this really freaks me out as somebody
trying to have a second
um like Arc in his entrepreneurial
career it's like I got it so right with
Quest and now I'm trying to do something
totally different in a totally different
field and I'm like oh there's really
something to am I am I of the moment
because a kid growing up now they're
they're just of the moment they're not
thinking like I didn't think about quest
Quest was me and look it was me and my
partners don't get me wrong it was this
Confluence of three people but just to
keep it about the part of me that was me
I was reacting against being an
entrepreneur chasing money uh I was like
this is so gross I just want to be
myself
this idea uh wanting authenticity
wanting to build community all of this
but I had it as a as a I was moving away
from all the [__] that I saw that I
didn't like about building businesses
and it happened to coincide right with
social media now I was on the bleeding
edge of social media not because I was
clever because I was having a big
emotional reaction and I decided to
pursue it and so I was of that moment
and so all of those things that happened
to coincide right as social media was
coming boom Quest hockey sticks it goes
crazy and like if you think about what
you built if that had been in 2019 it
would be a very different story right
right and so all this idea of like it's
out there sort of in The Ether and are
we able to have the balls to move when
it strikes us because it's out there for
everybody well said you know what there
is something to
you know being in that moment right and
so
are you saying then
that you
feel
like in the second Arc
you feel differently than you did the
first time around like you know too much
are you too not that I know too much
it's that I really had to so I spent
about a million dollars launching a
comic book
and it was a financial waste because I
was making comics for when I was reading
comics and I was reading comics in the
late 80s early 90s and so then my
instinct was to make films like the
films that I had when I was a kid but
that's done man it's dead and gone like
kids don't even think about that and so
I in my 40s had to go in this journey of
like okay wait
comic books are still getting turned
into movies so who's doing it right that
leads you to Japan which then ultimately
leads you to ask the question why does a
single title a single title bedros in
Japan outsells the entire Western comic
Market okay outsells Wonder Woman Batman
Spiderman uh Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles X-Men all of it combined is
outsold by Demon Slayer and so I was
like how the [__] is that possible and
looking at it then leads me to this idea
that they call Shonen which translates
as the few years so they had narrowed in
on this idea which is now I know known
as the age of imprinting 11 to 15 where
the brains in a really weird state which
is why power of myth taking kids on
these Journeys that you guys are now
doing which is incredible where you have
to have this rite of passage but the
reason that a rite of passage happens
that that [__] age is because you
your brain is in this hyper
malleable state where it's no longer
drinking from the parents is drinking
from culture and so now in my 40s I had
to discover Manga and Anime and like
really being in it and so it it's it's
now very calculated I'm trying to learn
I'm trying to figure out like what this
moment is now maybe I've learned so much
that's perfect and maybe I'm now at
because I feel like I'm at The Cutting
Edge of something I feel again the way I
felt the quest where I see something
other people don't see but I had to
brute force it whereas at Quest I was of
the moment yeah so I'm like I don't know
like my whole life I get to answer this
question is [__] fascinating to me
I'm totally unafraid of failure like
that just is not a concern for me are
you as into anime as you were in the
comic books of art now this scares me
I've sang this to my mom this weekend
I don't know if everyone is as malleable
as I am and they just don't do the thing
I have a process I can walk people
through it this is what you have to do
if you want to fall in love with
something new
or
is it not a process and what it is a
process but that it won't work for most
people and it works for me because by
Nature I just happen to be hyper
malleable I don't know the answer so I
act as if
anybody can do it but I don't know if
that's true and I'm terrified by the 50
of us that's hardwired because some
people don't meet minimum requirements
bro okay can I tell you something about
yourself that I've figured out about you
please
you my opinion I'm just going to share
my opinion please that I think you give
too much credit to the hard wiring and
not enough credit to the [__] Savage
that you are interesting I only think
about the Savage and the only reason I
acknowledge the hard wiring is I've I'm
watching culture walk a stupid line
where they're acting like there is no
hard wiring and that's going to end in
[__] disaster because you can no
longer predict the outcome of your
actions
So speaking of which page Rose let's
talk about this new movement in your
life I know your sun setting the Empire
podcast yeah starting something new yeah
why yeah uh so you know vampire podcast
well part of it is phases of life right
like we all go through seasons of life
and so when I was broke and you know
living in Section 8 housing when we
first came to the United States it all I
wanted was money because I remember the
conversation in our house and when
you're when you're the small one in the
house I was six years old and we came to
America so my older brother was 19 my
sister was 21.
my mom and dad and my older brother and
sister are always talking about how
we're running out of money before we run
out of month like every end of the month
it was always having to make a choice
between do we leave the water on or the
electricity on and there's always water
because you could live in the dark you
can't live without water in the section
8 housing apartments that we lived in in
Santa Ana
and um so I kind of grew up thinking
like money's going to solve a lot of
problems and so I want money I want
money and so as you as you become an
entrepreneur you have money and then
soon you cover your costs and and have a
good life and give your family
experiences and you start realizing all
right there's more to life than money
and so Seasons phases of life and so but
and it turns out I was good at making
money you do anything long enough maybe
part of it is that 50 hard wiring the
other part might have been just me being
so desperate for it I just looked at any
Mentor I could find from Old School
copywriters like Gary Halbert all the
way to you know people that really
focused on how the mind operates from
like the Tony Robbins is and Beyond
um and so
the Empire podcast was really about me
sharing my gift of being an entrepreneur
and how to turn any idea into into a
business and that business into an
Empire and then if you want to sell it
sell it if you want to scale it scale it
and go on
but I realized especially right around
2019 2020 with the pandemic and all that
holy hell man like we are in a place
where Society is not doing well now we
see how depression and anxiety has gone
through the roof we see the prescription
drugs for mood altering prescription
drugs that are up by 400 percent
especially during the core of the
pandemic suicide suicide grades all
those things right and so
I was like man I'm in a place where I'm
able to Mentor my kids and they're
staying at home thankfully
they're in a good head space we're
working out but then we're going on
Hikes we're talking to them about what's
happening in the world like school kids
no we don't homeschool them but they go
to private school and uh you know the
way I explain to them is hey guys this
is your Great Depression this is your
Great Depression this is uh your version
of my 911 you know that we experience
where there's uncertainty and chaos and
economic crash Etc and and so rather
than having them be afraid of it like
you guys are of age you know there are
so 12 and 14 at the time of the pandemic
and so talking to them walking them
through it because I just figured my dad
never did that with me like I love my
dad he brought us here he risked his
life to bring us to the United States
but everything else was on a need to
know basis and I didn't need to know and
so
the Empire podcast was all about that
making money building Empires the
bedrose coolian show that's launching
here is me talking about culture me
talking about Community me talking about
how we're
it just seems like this is a perfect
scientific artistic design to they're
trying to separate us by
left and right by black and white by
mask and no mask facts and no vax by if
they can if they can separate us by shoe
sizes bro I feel like they would and I
feel this they
like do you believe in a grand
conspiracy the new world order that kind
of stuff I don't know if it's a new
world order but I do believe that that
they is a very
smart group of
powerful people that run the world and
there is a smart group of powerful
people they're called the heads of state
and the people that voted them into or
not voted them that financially enabled
them to get into their have control a
great example of that and I always use
it as a micro economy like a micro scale
I'm the president no longer the CEO but
I'm the president of Fit Body Boot Camp
a franchise right
you could look at as every franchise
location we've got hundreds of franchise
locations as a state
the clients in there as the citizens of
that state now I could say that um we're
going to start using Tom billu's water
and I can mandate all franchisees to
start using it
and Tom Billy is going to give me HQ the
president a kickback from using that
water instead of the other water but now
I can force
my franchise used to use that and I'm a
franchisees have to then Force
their clients their citizens to use that
I could raise the prices I could raise
the franchise royalty fees and I could
justify it by saying whatever I want and
if you don't comply you've well you've
signed a franchise agreement that
franchise agreement says that I could
pull your franchise and make you
de-brand and if you de-brand you lose
your money I could stop sending your
your money
right and so it's
I'm My Own Little Country when you look
at a franchise it's a little country
with a leader and states and citizens
and so when I just look at it that way
well it just makes sense that they exist
the franchisors and so when you look at
all different like what if I'm not
saying this this doesn't happen but if
me and the other franchisors across many
Industries hell let's just say Fitness
industry
come together and we're like hey from
now on we're all going to raise the
franchise buy and feed to 80 grand and
not lower
minus 49.6 right now right 80 grand so
we can spire on that and we're the
franchise royalty fees are not going to
be seven percent anymore it's going to
be 10 across the board right if we all
conspire to do that now whatever
franchise brand you want to open up it
seems like six and one half dozen in the
other
really what we did is we conspired
together just like the universe might
conspire and people conspire to do
things and again you know everyone's got
best of intentions but they say the path
to hell was paved with good intentions
and so do I believe in that they I do
believe that there's a they in some
point maybe they did go into power to
there's power absolute power is
absolutely corrupt bro we're not
supposed to be this powerful we're not
we're not I I plan on giving away as
much of my money as I can so that I save
my son and daughter
from corruption money is corrupt money
is corrupt when you don't make it
yourself I believe that it's another
personal belief that I have I earned
mine I built mine from the ground up
with my wife certainly stood on the
shoulders of giants and watched what
they did and modeled that and paid for
coaching and got the results from it but
if I just hand them all the assets
and I hand them all the passive streams
of income I do believe that they will
[__] on their lives that is probably the
biggest thickest blanket I could put on
their Radiance that's interesting in my
opinion and so anyhow I do believe that
there is some level of
conspiring happening at the top and so
when you look at it that way
why divide us what's the what do you
think is the purpose
the internet did something
especially as we're entering web 3.0
bro it created freedom in a way that we
hadn't seen our like you remember
pre-internet I remember pre-internet
vividly right and like I would have to
get on a bus and go to Service
Merchandise or whatever to buy something
or gemco or zody's or whatever the
department store was now I could Amazon
Prime it and it's here the next day it's
exactly what I wanted and now anyone can
create a channel the YouTube a network a
platform the internet
has given us so much freedom and that
freedom
and humans are like we take an inch
we'll take a mile that's just how we are
we have gotten too free and I I'm pretty
sure it gotten too scary going back to
the franchise model if my franchisee
started to add a juice bar and I said
nothing about it and now they're adding
squat racks because Fit Body boot camps
don't have squat racks now they looks
like a a CrossFit now they're adding
child care right like hey now they're
going to monetize more with child care
but wait a minute that's Child Care is
not part of the Fit Body model it's a
whole different liability insurance plus
you have to have certified people like
watching those kids like you can't just
do that
now you guys have too much Freedom I've
got to bring the compliance officer of
Fit Body Boot Camp down on your ass
isn't it the same thing the web the
economy has been good for so long so
long and
this web has given people so much
freedom
that I believe that they needed to
create something to create this Division
and control and compliance of humanity
um
and so let's tighten the Noose down
again because it's compliance the
compliance officer
coming down on us is how I see it on
regular P I hate to say it this way on
the civilians on Regular People wage
earners
because first they were going to tax you
on us we're going to tax the rich
they're going to tax you and us and I'm
like no don't do that because me and Tom
know how to pass that cost along to you
I would raise my prices I will find a
way to still make my product profitable
you the customer and the employees will
end up paying for it because I'm too
clever and then to tax you they will
create inflation and they did right and
and so anyway that's I don't know if
we're getting political but but that's
how I do believe that control and
compliance
is being exercised right now by them
yeah it's interesting I sometimes worry
that I'm too naive so I don't have a
sense of the they
I am willing to accept that that
probably is naivete because I hear your
example and that makes a lot of sense to
me and somebody has to be uh getting
funding people to run campaigns and all
that at the end of the day we elect but
here in the in the west anyway
but going back to this idea of the
evolution of everything that you know
Cycles happen and
um you've got Ray dalio mapping out
these cycles and Empires rise and they
fall and the reason he says that that
cycle just repeats endlessly is because
there are only so many human personality
types again why I think about the 50
that's hardwired even though in my own
life I'm only thinking about the
malleable part is that if there's only
so many personality types then of course
things are going to repeat because you
just find people bumping into each other
and there's a finite number of ways that
those personality types will interact
and they get in these sort of cause and
effect loops and and they just are what
they are and it doesn't repeat exactly
but it Rhymes and it Rhymes because
enough changes and we're we there's just
like the Earth isn't just rotating
around the Sun we're also actually
flying through space right so there's
directionality to everything so there's
directionality to culture but there's
also this sort of loop right even though
we're going that way in things do change
but there's a lot of rhyming that goes
on so I don't think a lot about the they
but I'm willing to just say okay but
what I do think a lot about is
as social media has come along it's an
evolutionary moment right so we couldn't
have predicted how social media was
going to impact us and the bad news is
it's not all bad in fact I would say
it's primarily good but it's created
this weird moment where because humans
are so influenceable that I mean it's
why they're called influencers that you
end up getting this
when you marry it to an algorithm with
our desire to connect with another human
and to be swayed by their influence if
they have some sort of magnetism or
whatever and then the algorithm just
[__] really goes oh this is what you
respond to and so it takes you down
these like hyper Niche holes and if you
don't have a rule in your life that says
You must seek disconfirming evidence
you end up really seeing the world that
way and it just seems true so whatever
the algorithm is showing you it just
feels that's the true narrow it doesn't
feel like a narrative it's just that is
true so to your point about okay we have
division so I asked myself okay if I'm
having a biological experience and when
I say there are rules to this game I
mean that the world Works a certain way
based on the way that the human animal
is based on gravity and physics and all
of that stuff there just is a way that
things work why are we able to split
into camps of two why could they divide
Us by our shoe size and hopefully people
know about that study where you can give
people a red shirt or a blue shirt and
people will click up and automatically
start treating people in the red shirt
differently like what the [__] you know
it's make-believe but we were just
tribal like that so it's Evolution so
what is it that allows us to be so
evenly parsed into these groups well
left and right
is the the basic thing that a tribe
needs is you need some people that are
um All About compassion so that we don't
leave people behind that we have
cohesion we're looking out for each
other there's reciprocity but then you
have if you look at that on
um
on a large enough sample what you find
is then you get the freeloader problem
so if we were all compassionate you get
freeloaders who go oh word I'm in it
there's an evolutionary Niche for just
taking advantage of people it's like the
the
um the cuckoo bird which is where you
get the idea of a cuckold from right
cuckoo bird's like a word I can drop off
my egg and your nest and you'll raise it
and feed it and all that stuff amazing
idea of a cuckold came from 100 no
kidding yep so you always run into the
freeloader problem so the other side of
the equation has to be people that go no
personal responsibilities everything
now what you get is a group that works
because you get people who are like yo
you cannot just leave people behind you
can't be tyrannical and not think about
people you've got to love them and like
you know worry about them and lift them
up and you've got other people that are
like hey you can't [__] take
advantage you've got to pick yourself up
and you've got to like really a group
only becomes strong as the weakest link
and so we've all got to rise up now when
you bring them together they're high
functioning because it's in the friction
between the two where it's like this
half knows okay I need to like find
Concessions where it's going to work and
then this half is like okay we've got to
find we really should look out for
people and when they are working well
then we Thrive but now the algorithm is
pulling us down into these what's called
Peak shift and I'm I'm thinking of this
stuff out loud so everyone's gonna have
to bear with me if a week from now I
think very differently but this feels
right to me so there's this idea of peak
shift where if you take there's this
bird that the mother has a big [__]
red nose beak and when the bird sees
that big red beak it goes crazy and
there was a research scientist that was
like
is it responding to the size of the beak
to the fact that it's red like what
actually makes a go mom like I'm gonna
go into my Feeding Frenzy what they
found was the brighter you could make an
artificial one and the brighter you made
the red the bigger you made the beak the
crazier the chicks went and they just
like went berserk they called that Peak
shift so the algorithm is all about Peak
shift oh you like that then you really
like this you like that then you'll
really like this and you begin to
dopamine habituate and so it's just like
ah it goes crazy people are in there
scrolling all day you get one narrative
it takes you down this one path you're
not seeking disconfirming evidence you
get tied into these influencers and if I
can really put something that's hit me
recently
if you're feeling overwhelmed I
guarantee there's a study on this even
though I don't know it but I have felt
this so I know it must be true
if you're feeling overwhelmed and
someone tells you hate that person it
feels awesome because it's certainty
well I know exactly what to do hate that
[__] they're wrong I'm right
that feels awesome I agree people are
Intoxicated by certainty so you just
gave me certainty combined with all
those other things
and so now it's like even if there isn't
a they and this is just spontaneously
evolved we're living in this [__]
moment and so this is happening this is
real and
[__] is getting weird
and for the first time in my life I'm
paranoid I'm like not literally paranoid
but I'm like oh like I'm worried I'm
worried that things go to Bloodshed
that's my actual concern how does a
paranoid Tom bilio prepare
because I think I'm a bit extremist so I
can't trust myself and I I'm selling
this is good for your audience and for
me I'm selling everything I don't want
to be tied to anything
massive Mobility read radelia he he
wrote a book called principles for
dealing with the changes and he said you
need to be mobile
you need to be able to go basically
wherever stability is
um I've heard you talk about this so I
know you know the concept get off the X
yeah
I don't know where the x is going to be
but I know that I own a lot of real
estate and I probably shouldn't
so
that's move number one now I don't think
I'm the guy people should listen to I'm
[__] fumbling my way through this I
just want to make moves I was just
curious what your move was but that
that's where yeah I think Mobility is
key like my personal feeling and opinion
is that
liquidity and Mobility is key yep today
more than ever like
all everyone who's stockpiling like guns
and weapons and like making that
underground bunker like I haven't gone
that far I think it's quite the opposite
like that's all great what do you mean
it's the opposite
the I think the vision that most people
have is when they come to take my
property or to take my [__] to rape and
pillage like I will me and my wife will
defend you know our canned food and our
gold and our with our guns and ammo
hmm yeah not really first of all I think
statistically less than like 99 of
people have any training with their
weapons number one number two
most people are ill prepared if that
were the the apocalypse should hit the
fan thing was going to happen and
because I actually
studied with these
the guys like uh John Lovell Warrior
Poet Society and others like them who
have been actual true Warriors like they
don't think about hunkering down they're
all about liquidity and Mobility like
very intelligent Warriors who understand
that I've got to be liquid and mobile
because I don't know where yeah the x is
going to be but I know I won't be on it
and the resource that helps is obviously
money
right yeah and I hope man I hope I'm
just being paranoid and that ah it's
like a healthy paranoia yeah I mean it's
when it keeps you up at night it's when
you begin I believe there's a Tipping
Point to anything like my dad was taking
uh whatever like two baby aspirin a day
his heart's doing just fine I bet if he
took a handful a day he'd probably burn
a hole in his stomach it's it's when we
hit the Tipping Point which goes back to
your social media example that the
algorithm sucks us down this hole this
rabbit hole is so accurately and gets us
to believe that this is truly the
reality and if we are not looking
for the contrary actively looking for it
we will begin to believe that this is a
[__] it hits the fan moment and I must
I must prepare and what preparation
looks like for one guy may be very
different than the other no doubt yeah
you were born in soviet-controlled
Armenia yes sir how is that informed the
what you're telling your kids about this
moment might be the most interesting way
to ask that
as you were talking about
see this is why I like hanging out with
you this is the most selfish thing I do
like like whether it's food with you or
just this
it's like
I do realize that when you've grown up
under communist control and then when
your dad was a member of the Communist
party and so he kind of tell you you
grew up hearing the story so seeing it
and then hearing the stories
it does influence you and the way you
think like oh shoot that government did
that like they literally
went to oppress the citizens like there
was just different classes my dad was
part of the 18 of the society and the
Soviet Union who had a uh this different
colored dark red passport and I remember
he'd be able to get bread and cheese
from any store that he wanted when they
were out and there were lines me and my
mom would have to wait in lines until my
dad became a member of the Communist
party and we never once waited in the
line again in fact I grew up eating
caviar we talked about this in your in
your previous uh show the last time you
interviewed me I was eating caviar in
Armenia for breakfast and then come here
and I'm eating like out of dumpsters and
Section 8 housing so talk about it but
that government did oppress its people
and so I do realize that I look through
life through those lens at times and so
hearing you talk about like hey what if
this is just like
really good algorithm doing what it's
supposed to do oh [__] what if all right
so okay I'm a little less paranoia cool
more preparation yeah and then just live
your life and just live your life
um but it just breaks my heart when I
see dude when I see
people
this far apart like our country Humanity
has never been this far apart and and
maybe we need it we need to go so far
apart where we feel the pain and then
get back together again
um
and maybe it's that I'm 48 years old and
I've got more gray than I've ever had
and I'm realizing that I've had a really
good life experience and
worried from what my kids are going to
have as a life experience like what's
going to happen
for them and their kids like I want to I
can't wait to hold Andrew and Chloe's
babies
but I also know I'm gonna be like [__]
what's life going to look for like for
them so I'm so hell-bent on trying to
influence
Society humanity and what I feel is a
better way and I know it's you know
hindsight's always 20 20 and things
always are more glamorous when you look
back but how simple was it for us dude
growing up in the 80s and 90s
you know like all right so you got your
Walkman you got your CD player your like
there was no fentanyl to to overdose on
there was I wouldn't say though I was
legitimately afraid of nuclear war
really I mean that was like a thing and
I was right at that age where my
amygdala was just 80 of my brain during
the Cold War yeah yeah and it was like
Hey this mutually assured destruction I
remember having to explain that to my
neighbors I don't know the reason they
won't launch nuclear missiles is because
of mutually assured destruction that's
that's rough yeah so but I do remind
myself of that like okay have we been
this divided before probably I mean we
were at Civil War like literal guns
being fired Civil War people being
killed so it's like we have gone through
things like this and people rebound and
we're super resilient but I don't think
it happens by accident and so it's like
how do we you know nudge
each other back in a loving direction is
how I think about it
um
but how do we
I think it comes with the individual and
I think that's where it comes when we
try and change a whole party's ideology
and belief system is not going to work
it's going to be the individual like the
individual watching this listening to
this right now and going shoot I had two
different ideas on on maybe the rules of
life and how things work but then they
kind of agreed that there is a Radiance
within us whether it's we're born with
it or we have to turn it on and then
Stoke that fire
um yeah I could I could bind to the idea
of that there's something within us that
needs to thrive so to your point the
right place to start is with yourself
right so trying to figure out okay what
do I have wrong
how do I be the open mind that comes to
the table to try to you know find a path
forward
but I just don't feel like I have wisdom
in this like Ray dalio talks a lot about
things that have happened in history but
that have not happened in your life
and the things that are going on right
now have happened in history but they
haven't happened in my life and because
I'm so experiential like for whatever
reason I've always had to learn things
the hard way
and so yeah I don't know that I have any
wisdom to impart here but in my I find
it very fascinating and I really want to
understand what's happening like what is
this revealing about human nature I
don't think we can ever count on the
algorithm to do anything other than
maximize
um what humans respond to and
unfortunately we respond to
um certainty extraordinarily strongly
which is the opposite of an open mind we
respond to fear a lot more
than the flip side it's going to be a
lot harder to have a good news show than
it is to have a bad news show right if
it bleeds it leads and so all of these
things are real so it's like okay
I know all of these things are real what
can I do like do you have advice I know
you do I know the punchline to this but
like what's your advice to people on
social media like how do you deal with
it how do you make it a part of your
life do you not make it a part of your
life I do it's a very big part of my
life uh but I I divide social media
people into two two camps consumers and
creators
and I believe that you're better off
being a 90 Creator 10 consumer and
that's what I am and I create content
that the 1.0 version of me would want
because I've been able to take myself
from 1.0 to 2.0 and if 10.0 is my goal
then when I get to 3.0 I'll create
content for the 1.0 and 2.0 version of
myself and if I feel like that's what
you've done I have to see your Evolution
over the last four or five years
I I feel like you are coaching the
younger Tom Toms who were who are like
Tom 1.0 out there in society
um
it's
it ain't it ain't rocket science
that social media is a business and it
is there to
Stoke fear
create a level of certainty and also
it Stokes uncertainty so that we can be
attracted to those that that speak in
certainty that's what's beautiful about
social media when you just look back
at the hell that social media is it
creates uncertainty and it's like okay
well what do you mean well let's face it
social media has probably caused a lot
of kids to kill themselves like some
kids have like been bullied been been
felt like they don't belong fear of
missing out right it's created this
uncertainty within them and they felt
the certainly the solution to this is
death
um and so we do have to see how powerful
this thing is like anyone would be
stupid to not look at Hitler or Bin
Laden and and not realize there's
something to take away from there that
those those evil powers
did have
a
great way of communicating that perhaps
if we can
learn that
put it to good use that maybe we can do
create good outcomes with it so my
belief system on social media is to be a
creator of content that the older
version of you
would benefit from and would help those
people level up to the entire version of
you and if we all did more of that and
consumed less of it
um
there would be less influenced by it but
I also realize like there's literally
like variable response the whole idea of
this like a very it's a casino thing
right like you pull the slot machine do
am I going to get the three cherries if
I do I'm a winner [__] I only got two
cherries that was close let me try again
with another 20 Bill variable response
so variable response works on pumping
out dopamine like no one's business bro
they figured out how to get this thing
our brain to pump out the right
addictive chemicals so well that you do
goes back to routine goes back to
morning ritual rules and rituals I
believe will save someone from going
down the social media depression anxiety
time suck vacuum that it really is yeah
uh rule because I've got rules and
rituals about it like I won't like more
than three things right so if like you
and Lisa and my friend Craig pop up and
my first I'll like you three that's it
if I just keep going I've now starting
to suck to the variable response funnel
and now I'm going to keep liking liking
I will literally just go through all my
friends [__] and it'll show me stuff
from yours like six weeks ago like
there's no end to it so I've I create
rules and rituals and when I have rules
and rituals and also I know I have I'm
an addictive person
um and I think most of us are man uh
that's why we're so easily to get
addicted to social media I'm an
addictive person and so I know that I'm
more susceptible to to getting addicted
to that pattern and that pattern could
and then I'm also a CD so everything I
do is obsessive that's a bad combination
right apparently not for entrepreneurial
not entrepreneurial success touche but
in that path oh my God man to get
addicted to it and then to go OCD on it
forget about it like this is why man I
could eat a bag of bagels my wife was
like that's like a Baker's Dozen 13
bagels and two things of Philadelphia
cream cheese like where did it go like I
must finish it all Tom I can't leave
anything half finished even Bagels how
long would it take you to eat 13 bagels
or I would stand at the Kitchen Buffet
um
45 minutes no way did you not I thought
you were gonna say four days no dude
whoa
that's interesting I have an obsessive
mind but not a I don't have an addictive
personality so I don't find myself doing
that if I I don't like eat one chip and
then I'm fine but I'm like food used to
be more of a problem for me food is not
a problem but I thrive on rules to your
point what are some rules and rituals
that you have in place so we know the
social media one yeah so there's a
social media one uh you know going back
full circle to a morning routine uh the
best morning routines I believe start in
the evening so some of the rules that I
have read right right
um
no iPhone no no no no no starting at
what time uh for me at 9pm because I go
to bed at 10 okay no iPhone no iPad no
laptop hour before bed hour before bed
what are you doing talking to Diana
we're either watching uh we'll typically
watch right now we're watching uh
the blues uh oh my God where they built
it's a comedy show oh yeah yeah yeah oh
God Arrested Development there we go
you're watching that with the kids so
we'll watch one episode of the blues or
the rest of the development then we'll
go in the hot tub because we'll [__]
around in the pool while we're going and
the hot tub is just relaxation yeah
talking that's a rule too to relax talk
20 minutes 30 minutes while the kids
goof off and then they go in the hot tub
with us and we all get out they go to
bed we go to bed 10 o'clock lights out
um that's just how it worked out but the
screen's off
by nine o'clock in terms of computer
laptop and iPad we do watch a show and
then go into the hot tub uh number one
number two bring the 30 ounces of water
upstairs with me because if I'm gonna
drink 30 ounces of water in the morning
it needs to be on my nightstand
otherwise it might take me 20 minutes to
get there if I'm showering and doing all
this [__]
um create my GSD list the night before I
believe taking that stuff out of my
brain and putting it on a notepad
just allows me to do a brain dump and I
always put the hardest scariest thing
that I'm going to do tomorrow morning
the thing I want to avoid at the top of
my GST list right it's common sense and
it's not swirling around in my head and
my subconscious mind is keeping me awake
thinking about it it's on a list of
three to four things to do the worst one
at the top of that list and so again
that's another one of my
evening rituals and I'll set my alarm
and and lights out off I go
um but but some other rules are that if
there's people who always and uh to date
I've got 119 people blocked on my phone
some friends some clients former clients
I guess I should say some just
people who were friends but it's the
people that go hey Tom did you see this
article about your brand your company
your thing and it's always negative the
ones that always do like [__]
did you hear that I was on the Inc
magazine did you hear that I was an
entrepreneur magazine's top 500 fasting
franchises I didn't see you text me the
link to that right but you hear that
somebody died at a Fit Body Boot Camp
it's a gym people do die at a Fit Body
Boot Camp you know all of a sudden
you're sending me did you hear that
somewhere in Tallahassee Florida
somebody died at a Fit Body Boot Camp
thank you I'm aware of that right and so
people who are just so quick to show up
with negative news especially via text I
just block them like I'll see a pattern
I don't tell them or whatever like I'm
gonna block you you gotta not do that
but if I see someone's got that pattern
in my life they are addicted to causing
drama I don't need that so that's one of
my main rules as well of blocking them
on my phone uh at which point they could
just call the house line and talk to
Marlon my house manager and not me at
which point she'll leave a little
notepad note and that's that those are
my big major rules and then but mostly
on social media create 90 percent
consume 10.
you have rules man I think that this is
one of the most underutilized things for
people that want to be successful you
really you have to one identify what are
the things that I struggle with what are
rules that I can put in place for me the
biggest one I know we've talked about
this before is I have to be out of bed
in 10 minutes or less because otherwise
I will lose hours man it's crazy like I
am still shocked I when it comes to
laying in bed I'm like an alcoholic it's
like no matter how many years go by that
I don't do it I still every day
want to do it it's super weird and I
just find myself wanting to to lay in
bed how do you like and maybe you feel
like you've always had this but how do
you teach other people to be a Savage
you talk about being a servant Savage
and the need to be capable of that
savagery yeah one do you mean Savage
literally or do you just mean being
tough like how do you think about that
both both I'm sure you would jump to my
throat and like attempt to kill me and
probably kill me if I even made any
attempt to attack Lisa like you need to
be a Savage right but you're also a
Savage in creating your your businesses
and and and the impact Theory show
um a Savage and like doesn't matter how
you feel you're up doing your show
you're up doing your ritual you're up
stacking your wins it might be walking
like molasses during days that you're
not maybe you didn't sleep well or
having an off day but you're still
savagely going through your day so
Savage in both ways I do believe that
those who are skilled in the art of
violence are least likely to become
violent
and I've known this really interesting
why do you say that because of my
experience as a kid see growing up in
Section 8 housing
uh so so in in Russia Judo and [__] are
some martial arts that were really big
in the Soviet Union so my dad taught me
that very quickly Judo [__] and then as
soon as I became uh 11 years old he put
me into Kempo Karate kicking and and
punching and this is pre-ju Jitsu era uh
and growing up in Section 8 housing so
I'm the Foreigner imagine me the
Foreigner kid with the funny bull
haircut and the clothes that my mom made
in the section 8 housing and and uh in
Santa Ana there was a game called f
troop they're still out there causing
violence uh but my dad had bought me a
little bike like from a garage sale like
eight bucks or something dude it was
like Rusty and but it worked right and
then these gang bangers stole it and
they lived in the same complex in the
neighboring complex
they stole it I went I went home kind of
crying like hey this is what happened my
dad gave me a beating because that's
what the Communist Dad does and
when I told that to Kevin by the way my
therapist he's like hey anything ever
happened to you as a kid like do you
want to talk about because he helped me
with my stress and anxiety and all that
stuff right that was the reason I went
to a therapist I was like no man like
no there's nothing as a kid that I want
to talk about like okay I might he goes
well what about your parents he goes
well what about your parents I want my
parents
you know my mom spanked me my dad gave
me a beating but I would have rather had
those beatings and spankings than like
all my other friends they were put on
restriction for two weeks they're gonna
come out and play with their GI Joes
with me like they really have to like
pay the price I just got a good beating
and I can go out and play again Kevin
and he's laughing he goes that didn't
leave a scar on you I'm like nah I go
plus what happened to me as a kid even
before that was even worse but that's
where I had enough I apparently built
enough Rapport and trust with him where
I hinted to what had happened to me
hence being molested and that's how we
what was supposed to be one month of
therapy ended up being 15 16 months
because then we started working on what
happened to me as a kid but anyway going
back to the Savage and the servant what
I found was that when my dad was he beat
me and he goes if you don't come back
with your bike the beatings will
continue whoa
because that was a lot of money he spent
eight bucks for having three four jobs
living in Section 8 housing about eight
bucks can go towards food and water and
all this other stuff that he put towards
a bike give me a flathead screwdriver
and as I go get the bike I didn't have
to ask him what I do with the flathead
screwdriver wow and so it was simple
enough that
the more violence I could cause the more
compliant they became are you a big kid
I I was a bigger kid yeah I was a I was
a stocky kid and my two friends in
America were my first friends in America
were were black Section 8 housing it's
either Mexicans black kids or foreigners
Dwayne and Torrance Torrance I found and
when we stay in touch Torrance Jackson
in Anaheim Dwayne I have no idea but he
lived in apartment number 22 at the
Shade Tree Apartments God I still
remember that we played snake in the
grass together and all this so them two
had my back
and we went and got my bike
and it didn't even have to take any use
of the flathead screwdriver to get my
bike back
because they understood why we were
there and and so but I realized in that
moment that like all right sometimes
violence is is the way but I also
understood that violence could work
against me when a whole bunch of them
showed up and whooped my ass uh many
years later put me in the hospital
um all this to to tell you that
you begin to and now man doesn't matter
how big someone is how wiry someone is
how muscular someone is some of those
Jiu Jitsu or they've taken the you know
a few months of of Muay Thai kickboxing
like they will just like meatloaf your
face right in or just take take the air
out of your brain and you're you're
passed out
and so today people are more dangerous
than ever and when you realize that
I don't know what do they say in Texas
like an armed Society is a polite
Society well technically most people
these days with the knowledge of
violence that they have
um I just want to treat everyone as
though you know Jiu Jitsu you know
kickboxing you might have a flat head
screwdriver in your back pocket and
therefore I'm going to be cool to you so
I'm going to be a servant
but I love knowing that I could show up
as a Savage knowing that I don't really
pull that card out unless I have to uh
and the Savage is also the guy or gal
who's willing to
they see a car accident everyone else is
rubber necking
and you know taking video
like that Savage is someone who's
running to that car breaking the glass
window and pulling out the people out of
it right they're willing to stand in the
gap between good and evil
um I don't know if I shared this with
you on your show last time I was here my
family and I we do our annual trip to
Maui right around Christmas it's just
something that we we enjoyed Hawaii when
we got married for our honeymoon so we
decided to do an annual trip with the
kids
um several years back Andrew was
probably six Chloe was four we're flying
back it's one of the
from Maui we took an 11 pm flight back
from Maui to LAX and uh it's those
big jumbo Jets where there's like
the
lay down seats up front like in the in
the middle and on the sides and so we're
in the very back of first class we all
have our fun seats and then but way up
front in first class there's a dude
going off like smashing the seat I
didn't tell you the story no okay so
he's smashing dude we're up at like 35
000 feet up in the air we're over the
Pacific Ocean bro like he should have
done this on the tarmac where they could
have removed him he smashing the seat
back in front of him and now the dude's
like dude bro relax what's going on and
he's just like foaming at the mouth
going bananas people have gotten up and
kind of gotten into that Galley where
they make your coffee and all that stuff
and uh I look at my wife next to hers
Chloe across the aisle my wife and Chloe
and next to me is Andrew Andrew looks at
me I'm like buddy everything's gonna be
okay I look at my wife she looks at me I
just like Hey we're gonna be fine
Chloe's knocked out sleeping I look at
the guy behind my wife he's he's now
sitting this thing up right and we made
this eye contact like no words were
spoken no words were spoken Tom but I
just knew he had my back and I know he
knew that I had his back now I'm
thinking this is post 911. something
happens like we're all going to Dogpile
in this bad guy right because No One's
Gonna Die because you're not Landing
this thing in the water so you got to
make sure this guy just goes down so
anyway long story short we see the
flight attendants go all the way to the
back
they're coming down our end of the aisle
their plans to cut through the galley to
create a wall between
angry ballistic mad guy making the gun
gesture and hitting everyone's seat
they're trying to make a human wall
between him and the cockpit got it so as
they're coming down I see two interlaced
black handcuffs those zip ties and I
like stopped the flight attend like
ma'am is everything okay how can we help
like she goes
he's a fight risk we need to ask him to
put these on
and I I'm like well can we help and she
goes we have to ask him to put these on
I guess the law is they have to ask you
Tom so the next time if you decide to
lose your [__] on the plane he has to
agree he has to agree interesting they
come in front of him three flight
attendants and you can see this older
lady flight attendant
gesturing like got to put this on he
stands up he's like I'm not putting
those [__] things on
she looks up towards me and like help I
look at this guy just through the corner
of my eye and I see him standing up and
we both I had just finished remember I
told you I did the six week uh Marathon
challenge I just since then I've been
doing like about two challenges a year I
just finished an MMA challenge nice I
was like all right man I want to learn
to really fight right let's see how this
works yeah with at the time King of the
cage Welterweight Champion Aaron
Weatherspoon
awesome tiny little guy tatted up
peaceful until he brought me on the mats
and he would just have his way with me
but in six weeks he he taught me some
really cool stuff
um and then he went in the ring and beat
the [__] out of me because every six
week challenge has to end with either a
marathon or whatever right so anyway
that's a different story
so I we go and that's just me and this
guy and I I look at this guy he's like
what are you going to do about it I was
like bro just put those things on like
just like it be cool right I'm wearing
flip-flops and I got my Hilo Hattie
shirt on it's like [__] we're coming
from Maui dude
um sweating profusely because I'm
nervous he goes to shove me and I did
exactly what Aaron Weatherspoon taught I
parried out of the way got behind him
and got him in a rear naked Chokehold
Tom I'm not gonna lie to you bro I hope
Aaron Weatherspoon never sees this video
in the back of your mind you're like
okay I'm paying this guy to coach me
so like the times that I got him in an
arm bar or rear naked Chokehold or
Guillotine maybe he was just like kind
of going with it you know he really
wasn't choking he just tapped because
I'm paying him right dude it worked so
I'm trying to this guy I'm choking this
guy out I'm on his back I'm talking in
his ear like dude just calm down now
he's bucking like a Bronco I'm sliding
out of my flip-flops because I'm
sweating and I'm wearing flip-flops and
he's taller than me so I'm I'm like my
toes right I'm like that's right Aaron
said like when that happens take a deep
breath it'll tighten up more and then he
started to like crumple over
top Jesus it's working he's on his knees
I'm on his back now I'm like [__] now
the one dude who's here to help me he's
trying to wedge he's trying to wedge the
zip ties between my gut and his back and
bring his arms back and it's not working
I'm like okay what would Aaron do
I quickly got him in a guillotine
Chokehold you know the old elementary
school get a kid and then choke hold and
walk him around the campus thing that
would happen to me all the time because
I'd get bullied right so dude I flipped
around and gone I mean the guillotine
and it worked and this guy zip ties him
he zipped had really too tight and so
the zip tight cut into him so with the
re-zip time that's a different story but
anyway flight attendants made us sit in
the back with him we take turns Jesus
yeah we've got all the hummus and wine
you could drink and eat uh on the flight
and then we landed in LAX LAPD took him
away and that was that but all this to
say that
thank God that my dad had instilled this
Savage mindset in me like you have to be
the one that does something son you
can't just be the one who goes hey
someone should do something about that
and so that's always been my mindset
it's if I have to cross my arms and go
someone should do something about that
maybe I should be the one maybe I should
be the one funding that movement maybe I
should be the one saving that person out
of the fire or saving that flight
whatever the thing is and so I've always
but but I also want to show up as a
servant and love you up and and how much
value can I add to your life and what
could I do to connect because I also
realize I'm a big commanding guy and so
I could come off as a threat so look I
see a ping pong table everybody let's
play ping pong you know plus I enjoy it
so anyway that's I believe the more
Savage servants we can build the more
confident capable protectors and
providers we will have men will finally
feel that they have this role in their
life their every guy feels like they
want to have conflict like we have this
thing called the project it's a 75 hour
men's personal development program but a
75-hour strike great so my lead
instructor for it Ray is a former Navy
SEAL then we have the psycho sociopathic
form Marine I've learned not to say
former Marine once a marine always a
marine apparently then there's me
teaching life productivity time
management
building businesses because they're all
entrepreneurs that come to this thing
MMA fighter
uh former SWAT operator teaches pistols
and rifle stuff and so we really T 90 of
these guys when the Marine asks
how many of you [__] have never
hit another man before 90 of the hands
go up
how many of you have ever choked out
another man 90 uh have never choked out
on a hands go up
and so realize yet they still have a
desire you're a man you have this desire
to be aggressive to to have some level
of conflict to be able to like but you
can't because Society has neutered us so
much and so there we teach these guys to
be violent but to also learn how to
control their violence so that they're
not because otherwise when you never
show your violence and you're Savage
within you become a passive aggressive
man and that is where toxic masculinity
Begins the passive aggressive man the
nice guy syndrome there's a great book
out there called No More Mr Nice Guy
that's the passive aggressive man that's
you know toxic masculinity is the
passive aggressive man who will yell at
his wife and put his fist through a wall
at home where it's safe but where when
he's supposed to stand in the gap or
raise his voice in a situation between
where the opportunity of right and wrong
are presented or jump out of a seat and
choke a [__] out he won't do
that he won't do that because he's not
really sure if I can I know I could
probably yell at my wife and my kids and
scare them well here's your chance to
fight with a pugil stick here's your
chance to wrestle a guy here's your
chance and when they do they realize oh
you know what first of all I could take
a punch secondly I know what it feels
like to get choked out and choke another
man out you know I think I am going to
go learn this thing on my own Jiu Jitsu
or Muay Thai and every single one of
them report back that they're more
peaceful that they have less stress
because you're on the mat two to three
times a week or in the ring
getting after it
I literally have zero stress bro like
because of it in terms of like where I
want to like rage out and kill someone
because I'm like somebody else might try
and kill me like I'm just gonna be cool
this is very interesting to me because
it's the very thing that I know uh I
have not focused on in my life and ought
to
but the first time that somebody put it
on my radar was Frost the hobby who was
the I don't know if he was the
all-around MMA coach of George Saint
Pierre but certainly the uh Jiu Jitsu
coach for George Saint Pierre and had
him on the show in the early early days
and he said Tom I want to choose
kindness I don't want kindness to be my
only option I was like damn
very good point and then Jordan Peterson
has started talking about this recently
where he looked at the phrase from the
Bible the meek shall inherit the earth I
have to admit this always bothered me
because I always interpreted Meek as
weak so I was like why would the weak
inherit the earth it doesn't make sense
like I know that it isn't true and so
how does that like the Bible believe it
as a literal thing or not it's got
wisdom that's obviously lasted for a
reason so I was like ah why does that
resonate so Jordan Peterson whether he's
right or not is another question but
this feels right looks up I think the
ancient Greek translation of Meek and it
means to basically to be good with a
sword but keep it sheathed and so
there's a reason they didn't say the
weak shall inherit the Earth but when
you are a competent fighter then you can
choose combat or you can choose not to
but there's no internal conflict there's
no uh nervous aggressive like a
Chihuahua that's like barking and
freaking out because it feels like it
has to act big and tough because if if
it can't get you to back down and it
actually goes to blows now it's going to
be in trouble because it doesn't
actually know how to fight Bingo or just
paralyzed like you said and they're they
just stay because they're you know
afraid that they won't be able to do
anything
and I do feel that that is one that as
guys you do have that impulse that you
get in an elevator and you think could I
take this guy like even in business like
it still does run across your mind and
so to not
address it I think does it to to not
have that tool in Your Arsenal just robs
you of one more thing but also it sets
up what you're talking about where
you've got people who are like guys are
going to try to get laid full stop
period end of story it just is what it
is and so if you don't have that
confidence you don't feel like you can
be manly and sort of win over a woman's
heart by being the sort of prototypical
tough guy not even tough guy but like to
have that yeah a dangerous man but but
Meek in the that you're weaponized but
you keep your weapon uh hidden then you
go for the nice guy tactic oh the the
subtlety the more feminine way of being
Sly where it's reputational oh he's not
the right guy for you anyway like they
you know they slide in that way there's
a whole strategy that in the animal
kingdom there are actually like frogs
that do this I think there are other
ones as well where there is a legitimate
male strategy where they try to look
like a female and so they they can
bypass the dominant male and they can
mate it's crazy so it's uh it is a I
fear a strategy that that guys are
tempted to deploy but it isn't a
confident grounded expansive strategy
it's a
uh sort of Shifty like secretive it's a
desperate attempt it's not a good energy
when that's your only tool you have to
make that tool as useful as possible and
so and a lot of dudes end up in in the
nice guy friend category that's like hey
how'd you become a friend you're kind of
get laid and now you're a friend uh
there was a comedian I forget the
community comedian he goes all those
people you just described those guys
they're the dick in the jar now because
then when that girl gets a boyfriend as
in as soon as there's a conflict with
the boyfriend and she goes I hate him
I'm thinking of breaking up that's the
guy who goes it's like in case of
emergency break glasses right you know
what yeah he is a bad guy he is a dick
maybe maybe he's hoping that if he just
also pisses on the boyfriend that he can
get laid for the night like that's not a
cool way to do it but if that guy also
had the tools of confidence and he was
capable and he knows how to protect but
he also knows how to stay cool like
Fonzie because there's no good even in
the best fight where you win you still
get hit
I've been stabbed whoa
I've got a giant scar on my calf like
the guy went down I hit him up in your
calf because when you hit him and you're
like I'm done
and then he pulls out a knife and just
slices your calf that's how you get
stabbed in your calf so even in your
best fights you still get hit right in
the process of trying to win and so but
see again if someone's been on the mats
before they've been in a ring before
they've been in a fight before they
realize like okay it's Gonna Hurt it's
gonna hurt me even when I win right can
I now try and talk my way out of this
can I be cool if I have to I can always
resort to that but can I be cool but if
but if that Shifty desperate I'm the I'm
the beta you're the alpha thing is the
only tool I got I don't I don't want
that dude I don't want that desperate
thing because what if I'm with my family
and you decide not to have mercy on me
and I can't
plead my way out of this I want to be
able to like get both thumbs in your eye
holes as quickly as possible right
that's just a reality we all like you
said it man we go in the elevator we
start like
sizing people up that's just how it is
I don't know about you but I've got such
a predator's mind that I'll be in an
I'll be in a grocery store
and I'll see like a woman with a purse
and she's like looking at something I'm
like I could steal that purse right now
I see a guy who's like in his car and
he's got his door opener but he's got
his head in his ass is sticking out I'm
like that Five series BMW could be mine
right now like I know exactly what I
would do to like pull him out of his car
and take that car so quick like I do
believe that every man has a predator's
mind it's in our it's just a wayward
wired
but I also
have experienced a lot of violence where
I've had my ass whooped where I'm like
that dude could also have a concealed
carry permit as I'm pulling them whack
that also that dude could also grab a
knife and slice because I've been sliced
before right and so
and I would never do that these days
right like the old me I've carjacked and
home invasion robberies but the the new
me like realizes that there's people
that great might equalizer is the gun
the knife or multiple people and if you
get past all those then there's a
universal uh karmic Justice that always
has to take place to balance out you
know you being an [__] means your kid
gets cancer
interesting I believe in that too that
my sins will be paid for by my kids and
so I have to add so much value bro to
make up for all those [__] years of
being an [__]
it's a useful way to look at it even if
it's not literally true
where can people follow you best place
to follow me is on Instagram
I love it
guys
follow him he's absolutely incredible
he's right about an incredible amount of
things and speaking of incredible things
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care peace
I think there's a misnomer around like
education and so a lot of them I don't
know how explicit I can be but like they
mentally masturbate so watching lots and
lots of videos they you know want the
pump up features they buy the tickets to
the things and so they just learn and I
think that they think that exposure to
information is learning